# Factory Pattern

Esists a family of classes with the same interface but different behavior. This, can be done simply with an interface that all classes can implement. To do this stuff a test has to be sure that all classes generated by the FactoryBuilder are instance of that interface:

    <?php
    namespace Patterns\Factory\Interfaces;
    interface KindKids {
        public function verse();
    }

Another important thing is that each child implement that "verse" method as its own behavior's needs.

    <?php
    namespace Patterns\Factory\Kids;
    use Patterns\Factory\Interfaces\KindKids;
    class Horse implements KindKids {
        public function verse() {
            return 'nitrisce';
        }
    }

    <?php
    namespace Patterns\Factory\Kids;
    use Patterns\Factory\Interfaces\KindKids;
    class Dog implements KindKids {
        public function verse() {
            return 'abbaia';
        }
    }

This pattern is very useful when we do not know if another kind of child will be added. This pattern provide a way to reduce the code to write in case of explosion of that classes. In fact, if another class is needed, we first will create our new class:

    <?php
    namespace Patterns\Factory\Kids;
    use Patterns\Factory\Interfaces\KindKids;
    class Cat implements KindKids {
        public function verse() {
            return 'meaow';
        }
    }

And second, we will tell to factory how to implement new one.

    <?php
    namespace Patterns\Factory;
    use Patterns\Factory\Kids\Dog;
    use Patterns\Factory\Kids\Horse;
    class FactoryKindBuilder {
        public static function build($dataSet) {
            switch ($dataSet) {
                case 'horse':
                    return new Horse();
                case 'dog':
                    return new Dog();
                case 'cat':
                    return new Cat();
            }
        }
    }

And we dont need to change any line of code out of this piece of code. We just start to use new 'cat' parameter to build another kind of animal.
